The Joe Rogan experience.
This is, uh, an odd idea,
but I think what it's doing is it's forcing us to
adapt and evolve our ability to detect, to detect.
And it's doing it almost like an immune system response,
like what,
what we're reacting to and what we're recognizing from all this stuff is like,
oh, we didn't know what this was.
And this has resulted in this riot,
whatever you want to call the Capitol hill attack.
And now we're looking at more censorship on social
media. We're looking at, uh, you know,
like them trying to Batten down the hatches and figure out how to handle
something like Q Anon or the people that were
allegedly promoting these ideas.
A lot of them that are banned from social media,
the stuff that you highlighted in your show,
we have to figure out what's true and what's not true.
And so there's been some sort of draconian measures that have been, um,
suggested, you know, like, uh,
hiring some sort of a team that goes over social media
and make sure that everything is according to what they deemed to be correct or
incorrect, which obviously is subject to biases.
And we're, we're very aware that that's going on today.
That there's a lot of that going on today where the necessarily a truth doesn't
like the hunter Biden laptop story is a great example of that, right? Like, uh,
the social media platforms,
they censored news from the New York post.
One of the oldest newspapers in America on the hunter Biden laptop story,
because they decided that somehow or another,
it was propaganda or somehow or another,
it was not good to get that information, but it was news. It was real news.
It was a real story. And they decided it was too close to the election.
This could hurt Biden. We don't want Trump to win.
So you're dealing with biases.
This is not just like simply here's information that we know to be true or
here's information that we know to be alive.
We're going to stop that from getting through. No, they knew it to be true,
but they decided to stop it because it wasn't convenient or it didn't fit the
narrative they were trying to.
Right. It's very it's. I mean,
how do you find a neutral arbiter of the truth? Um, if,
if you are going to entrust someone with that responsibility,
and I think that that's, it's just an incredibly slippery slope,
incredibly slippery. And, and what these big tech companies have,
have, uh, suggested is that, well, maybe we don't use humans,
maybe we use algorithms, right. You know, to, to, to moderate everything. And,
you know, the algorithms had had that,
that in many ways had bolstered something like cube because they're,
they're basically a sociopathic when it comes to just trying to
drive attention as much possible.
So now they can kind of invert those algorithms and,
and punish those who, um, talk about, uh, that kind of content.
And oftentimes even if, even if their goal was just to predict, prevent,
I dunno, a conversation around, um, Q and on,
because they consider it to be problematic. What else gets swept up?
What else gets swept up with that? Um, I mean, I saw,
I saw a lot of people who were reporting on Q1 on maybe coming from the, uh,
the side of critiquing it, their videos were being wiped out. Um, you know,
people who were documenting January the sixth,
their content was being wiped out.
People who are critical of Q1 on they had websites that were, um,
sort of on the other side that was being wiped out as well.
And that's because of course, it's, uh,
it's sort of this blunt force that, that an algorithm wield.
So people,
even people that were analyzing the move and from a critical standpoint,
people who are looking at like how ridiculous this is, look at this,
they had their channels wiped out as well. Yes.
So any content on Q and not, they just want to erase it from the internet.
That seemed to be the, the initial response. Yeah.
It's move together in sync.
I mean, I, I think that if I did not have, you know,
HBO in my sales with this project, it wouldn't have seen the light of day.
Really. Or did you try to put it on YouTube? You think?
Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean, when we, even, when we,
so when we first released the series, um, you know, there was,
there was, there were some articles floating around like, oh,
maybe this is going to make it things worse. Um,
if I typed in Q into the storm into YouTube, it wouldn't,
auto-populate at a certain point,
it started out auto-populating and then that went away. So, um,
yeah, I, I wouldn't feel confident at all that, um, you know,
if we didn't have a gorilla in our corner, uh, that, um,
that this story that revealed ultimately who was behind Q Anon, uh,
would have been seen, would have been able to find an audience. Um.
And that HBO shout.
Out to HBO. I mean, they really had my back, so.
And amazing for decades, you know, you really think about it. I mean,
they're the people that when bill Maher's show politically incorrect got pulled
off of what was it on ABC? I forget network television. Um,
they immediately took it, brought it over,
turn it into real time and made it even better. You know, it was uncensored now.
And, and it's, in my opinion, real time with bill,
Maher's probably one of the very best social commentary
shows and,
and comedy shows that like really doesn't pull any punches on any network.
However you want to hear something crazy. So, yes,
just yesterday I was talking with, uh,
someone who's helping distribute the film and I said, well,
what about Amazon? You know,
are we gonna be able to put it out on Amazon internationally? And they said,
well, as of the last year,
they've stopped taking documentaries, all documentaries,
what you cannot publish a documentary on their platform.
And the reason was because that I was told is because, you know, there was,
there was all this conspiracy flat earth stuff, and they were,
they were getting blow back that eventually they said,
we don't want to have to decide what we publish and what we don't, what's real.
And what's not, we're just not going to publish anything.
And the example they gave me that they couldn't get published was
the Cove. I don't know if you saw that documentary,
the dolphin documentary documentary, it won an Oscar.
And I just to just to check it, you know, I looked it up and sure enough,
the code wasn't available on, on Amazon. So, you know,
those who said that there wouldn't be a slow creep of censorship, you know,
kind of starting with things that I think everybody agrees should be, you know,
they wouldn't like to be in society. You know, things like the daily Stormer,
maybe a lot of people don't want eight Chan, you know, it's a,
there's a progression, you know, until you end up, it seems like something like,
you know, the, the Cove can't find an audience on a, on a major platform. Um,
and I don't want to conflate government censorship of the corporate
censorship too much. However,
in a lot of ways it does feel like the government has passed the buck to these
corporations to do what they legally can't,
which I think is the same thing we saw the government do with privacy, right?
Like they wouldn't have been able to get all of this data from us directly,
but if you give it to a Facebook or a Twitter,
it's very easy for the government to then go and get access to that information.
So I think what we saw happen with the fourth amendment,
we're now seeing happen with the first amendment where they can say, well, look,
we, we couldn't restrict conversation around certain topics.
We couldn't directly, um, decide what's true, or what's not,
we're going to put that in the hands of these companies.
And of course these companies have intimate relationships with, um,
with many members of, of the government, you know,
there's a revolving door there. So I, I,
when people want to talk about what limiting what we can say online or
limiting, um, disinformation.
So the things I think that it's almost the wrong place to start.
I think we have to go back to the privacy issues.
And I actually think if we had not let privacy be eroded online,
we wouldn't be having this debate. You know, cause if,
if these gigantic companies hadn't collected thousands of data points on us,
you know, didn't know our fears, our desires, um,
if they hadn't built these psychometric profiles,
they wouldn't have been able to manipulate us,
use these algorithms to drive us into echo chambers,
which have really created these disparate realities.
And now these disparate realities can't agree necessarily on a set of facts.
Um, sometimes you're, you're considered, um, you know,
sometimes people will be ostracized or even talking to somebody from the quote
unquote other side. Right. Um, and,
and so now there's this conversation about what should be allowed to be set
online. Uh, and I think that that's simply a by-product of, of,
um, you know, a privacy having been eroded. So, you know,
if I was to do anything about these issues, I would start by restoring rights.
I would go back and say, all right, well, how do we get, you know,
how do we get, um, ownership and privacy rights, um,
online when it comes to our, our personal data,
let's start there before we start, you know, going after the speech itself.
Watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.